---
layout: post
title: Don't panic.
cover: true
excerpt: "In a matter of hours, the great United States of America will vote for our next president. I'm not worried."
---

## In a matter of hours, the great United States of America will vote for our next president.

**I’m not worried.**

My friends on the left tell me to panic because Trump is likely the most
unqualified person, in applicable knowledge and temperament, to ever be up for
the office. My friends on the right tell me to panic because Clinton is grossly
irresponsible with classified emails and, depending on what you read, a satan
worshiping pedophile, too.

Yikes! Of course, if you’re trying to prevent people from panicking, using the
phrase “don’t panic” is probably the least effective way to do it. I’ve read
that the word “don’t” doesn’t negate the emotional effect of the word “panic,”
which is to encourage panic.

*So let me tell you why I’m not panicking.*

### 1. Elon and Peter will be fine.

Do you think Elon Musk is going to close up shop if Hillary isn’t elected? Do
you think Peter Thiel is going to curl up in a ball if Donald isn’t elected?
They aren’t panicking. Neither should you. They will adapt their businesses to
any change in political climate just as they always have.

*Yes, even Mark Cuban.*

People are still going to start businesses and in either a Clinton or Trump
victory scenario there will be new opportunities to build things. We read and
respect business professionals in and outside our fields. With that respect, you
welcome their opinion on politics during elections like these. Sometimes they
get really passionate about it and that’s fine. Just don’t confuse their passion
for thinking they’re not going to make it if their candidate doesn’t win.

Business will carry on.

### 2. Supreme Court Justices aren’t idiots.

{% include helpers/image.html name="02.jpg" caption="Cartoon by David Sipress" %}

You can get to eyeshot of the Supreme Court with some bias but not without some
deep understanding of the constitution and history.

If you’re a Trump supporter, you may be hoping for anti-abortion justices. If
you’re a Clinton supporter, you may be voting for pro-equality justices. In both
cases, what should be on the table is reasoned interpretation of the
constitution based on precedent. If you believe in America, as I do, I propose
that you trust the system we’ve set up. A group of smart people can reason,
debate, argue, and a just outcome will prevail at the supreme court level. You
may not always agree with it.

### 3. Regardless of who wins, there will be almost half the electorate who will be against anything they do.

A lot of people see this as a negative — and it probably is if your person wins.
Still, you can rest assured there will be an army lobbying, rallying, trending,
and otherwise protesting the actions of the next president.

This makes things difficult for presidents getting things passed because
ultimately Congress answers to the people in much more real terms than the
president does — plus, of course, they’re looking out for their own election
interest.

The popular vote will likely be fairly close — possibly almost half and half. It
may even differ from the electoral college winner. At that point, you’re
fighting to keep things from changing too much in the direction you dislike.

### 4. Presidents have limited power, even if their party also controls Congress.

{% include helpers/image.html name="03.jpg" caption="Cartoon by Benjamin Schwartz" %}

Above any political partisanship, I’m a believer in American democracy. Trust
that we can head off horrible ideas proposed by the candidate you don’t like.
The crazier the idea, the harder it is to get it implemented — and that’s a good
thing.

{% include helpers/facebook-video.html url="https://www.facebook.com/vocinogaming/videos/1409606109052682/" %}

There’s a sentiment this year that we should be burning it all to the ground and
rebuilding. I’m not really cool with that. We do pretty well, all things
considered, and we don’t need to be throwing it all away.

Our system of checks and balances will prevent it from being burned to the
ground. Some people on both sides think this means it’s rigged but their opinion
most certainly changes depending on who is trying to pass what.

### 5. We’re living in a simulation anyway.

Don’t worry, the next version will have this whole thing sorted out. You won’t
remember a thing.
