---
layout:     post
title:      "2015, 2016, & Beyond"
summary:    "A lot happened in 2015. I’m sure everyone says that but I feel as though it’s been an especially full year."
---

A lot happened in 2015\. I’m sure everyone says that but I feel as though it’s been an especially full year.

## 2015, 2016, & Beyond

A lot happened in 2015\. I’m sure everyone says that but I feel as though it’s been an especially full year.

Personally, and by far the most special part of this year, was the birth of my son, Caleb. Starting my new journey as a father has been stressful, inspiring, and unbelievably rewarding.

It seems like every day there’s something new and exciting about him. Watching him grow and figure things out is so much fun. The purpose having a child gave to my life has been dramatically inspiring.

Watching his relationship with his mother, and my beautiful wife, Rachel has been equally inspiring. I had a very close friendship and bond with my mother and when I see them interacting and the love that they share, it really moves me. I lucked out with finding a partner with such motherhood instincts and such a passion for teaching and leading children. While I knew that before, I don’t think I really comprehended the impact of that until this year.

Professionally, it was also my first full year designing products at Facebook. Some of my side projects saw significant growth and revenue as well. I started doing more day trading and serious long-term investing. Combined, this meant the most successful year for me (and us, as a family) financially, ever.

## Goals

I don’t really like the term “resolutions” when it comes to planning for a new year. Granted, it’s the same thing but I prefer to frame it more around what I will work to accomplish. “Resolution” feels more like saying I’ve screwed up last year but I’m going to make it right this year. That’s not a good attitude.

At any rate, here’s a short list of my goals for 2016 (in no particular order).

1.  **Swear off soda.** Working at Facebook means access to every kind of awesome soda you can have. It also means access to healthier options that I should be taking advantage of (see #2)

2.  **Drink water.** I don’t drink water. Like, ever. That’s probably bad.

3.  **Write.** With tools like Facebook Notes, there’s no reason not to write more. Writing helps me organize my own thoughts and opinions. Sometimes I think I know what my opinion about something is, then I’ll sit down to write a post and that opinion will change with research and personal reflection during the process.

4.  **Track my progress using** [**Way of Life (app)**](https://www.facebook.com/wolapp/)**.** I love analyzing and visualizing data and if I can stick with tracking all year I will have a nice basis for discovering new insights about how these changes make me feel better.

5.  **Launch a new podcast.** I’ve had this idea kicking around for ages. It’s a podcast called [VSYNC](https://www.facebook.com/vsynccast/) — conversational 1:1 chats with industry leaders in the video game space. All the tools are available to me, I just have to get on it.

6.  **Visit at least 4 cities in Europe.** As many of you know, my family is moving to London for a year. I’ll be jumping into some new and exciting products soon to be launched from Facebook’s London office. I also want to use this amazing opportunity to explore Europe as much as I can with my wife and son.

7.  **Focus on MRR with a side hustle.** In addition to my main gig, I run an active gaming community, a Twitch team, a weekly podcast, and more. While I enjoy creating things that people use, in the new year I want to focus on the projects that are generating the most revenue and free up time from the ones that aren’t.

8.  **Reestablish my personal brand.** Back in the day, I used to work hard to keep my personal brand and [Vocino.com](http://vocino.com) alive. Even though I attribute this to a lot of my success with startups and consulting over the years, I’ve let it die. I need to get it back to it.

9.  **Develop a better investment strategy.** I’ve checked off the standard boxes: 401k, emergency fund, debt zero, moderate risk portfolio, college fund for Caleb, etc. It’s time to start a relationship with a solid financial advisor and compounding wealth. Cash sitting in a savings account is unproductive and using [Robinhood](https://www.facebook.com/robinhoodapp/) to make fun trades won’t get me there.

10.  **Relax.** Wow, that’s a long list. Having said all that, I think it’s only fitting that #10 be to relax and enjoy. I would not have been able to predict what is happening now 12 months ago. So just relax.

_See you in 2016!_
